so if we're gonna have a wet team today
the dry team you don't know who you are
catching the animal will be myself will
and Christine so we can move the animal
quickly and efficiently and the goal is
to have the shortest amount of water to
water time
from the beginning no one had expected
her to live each hour that passed was
further proof of her hard-fought
struggle for survival and each hour that
passed brought the little whale they
came to call inky one step closer to
return home
she was about to embark on an exhausting
4-hour flight for inky it was one more
step in a remarkable journey a journey
that had begun five months earlier on a
beach in New Jersey it was Thanksgiving
Day and a young pygmy sperm whale had
stranded bystanders and police protected
her until the Brigantine stranding
center arrived on the scene
dozens of phone calls activated the
Marine Mammal stranding Network and my
10 o'clock that night Thanksgiving
dinners up and down the East Coast had
been put on hold
the US Coast Guard agreed to do an
emergency airlift taking the whale by
helicopter to a hospital pool at the
National Aquarium in Baltimore I did not
give her much of a chance at all for
survival when I first saw the whale she
was in a very poor condition she was
dehydrated appeared to be in shock she
had very poor muscle mass and muscle
tone she was a perfect example of an
animal that would not survive long
without proper and immediate care
a lot of times when we get these
stranded animals in it seems like
there's little hope they come in
emaciated the kochiya species which inky
was a member of in particular hardly
ever make it past about a week in a
rehabilitation setting and I think we
all felt when she first came in that not
another one of these poor animals I
think there was a lot of skepticism to
keep plugging away and keep moving on
and putting in the time and the
resources to save her because they just
don't do well but stay in Baltimore the
aquariums medical team began an
intensive series of examinations and
medical tests to discover what had
caused this young whale to strand
it was clear that she was an unhealthy
animal unable to move she was logging at
the surface very strange behavior it
seemed as though she was not going to
improve or she was eating very little
and she was not gaining weight and she
looked as though she is in trouble after
three weeks of blood tests x-rays and
sonograms inky was still alive but the
source of her illness was still a
mystery it was when they called in
endoscopy specialist dr. Michael wise at
inky's problem became all too clear
because we know that animals like her
often have ulcers and so we were
examining her stomach for that purpose
and didn't find ulcers but did locate
some appeared to be foreign material we
were able to determine her primary
problem which was actually plastic that
was stuck within our stomach we found
numerous types of plastic within the
animal's stomach including part of a
mylar balloon what looked to be the
cellophane wrapper of a cigarette carton
there were other pieces that resembled a
green garbage bag but this is an animal
was stranded for a single reasoning
that's because we throw junk in the
ocean or we throw junk word shouldn't be
and it finds its way into the ocean
the number of strandings has been going
up regularly for a number of years and
since we are finding more animals we're
looking harder at those animals to see
what's happening to them and we're
finding marine debris very frequently it
shows us that our everyday garbage and
our everyday activities actually have
impacts on the environment recent
reviews have shown that there is up to a
hundred and thirty marine species that
are affected by entanglement and up to a
hundred and sixty species that are known
to ingest marine debris so we're not
only looking at marine mammals but we're
looking at sea turtles sea birds fishes
and even some invertebrates so the whole
spectrum of the marine ecosystem is
impacted by marine debris keeping
garbage out of the oceans is a mission
the United States Coast Guard takes zero